## 98. Internationalization (i18n) - Using react-intl

### Introduction

Internationalization (i18n) is the process of making your application work in multiple languages. This includes translating the text in your application, as well as handling different date and time formats, currencies, and other locale-specific details.

React-intl is a popular library for internationalizing React applications. It provides a set of components and hooks that make it easy to translate your application's text and format dates, times, and numbers according to the user's locale.

### Installation

To install react-intl, run the following command:

```
npm install react-intl
```

### Usage

To use react-intl, you first need to create a message catalog. A message catalog is a JSON file that contains all of the translations for your application. You can create a message catalog using the following command:

```
npx react-intl init
```

This will create a file called `messages.json` in your project directory. You can then add translations to this file by adding key-value pairs. The key is the message ID, and the value is the translation. For example:

```
{
  "greeting": "Hello, world!"
}
```

Once you have created a message catalog, you can use the `intl` component to translate your application's text. The `intl` component takes a `message` prop, which is the message ID of the message you want to translate. The `intl` component also takes a `values` prop, which is an object containing any values that you want to interpolate into the message. For example, the following code would translate the "greeting" message and interpolate the "name" variable:

```
import { intl } from 'react-intl';

const Greeting = ({ name }) => {
  return (
    <h1>{intl.formatMessage('greeting', { name })}</h1>
  );
};
```

In addition to translating text, react-intl can also format dates, times, and numbers according to the user's locale. To do this, you can use the `formatDate`, `formatTime`, and `formatNumber` functions. For example, the following code would format the current date and time according to the user's locale:

```
import { formatDate, formatTime } from 'react-intl';

const DateTime = () => {
  const now = new Date();

  return (
    <p>
      {formatDate(now)} {formatTime(now)}
    </p>
  );
};
```

### Conclusion

React-intl is a powerful library for internationalizing React applications. It provides a set of components and hooks that make it easy to translate your application's text and format dates, times, and numbers according to the user's locale.
