**15. SpaceX Starships Advanced - Lunar Gateway Operations**

The SpaceX Starships Advanced program is a set of proposed modifications to the Starship system that would enable it to perform operations in support of the Lunar Gateway, a planned space station in lunar orbit. These modifications include the addition of a docking port, a propulsion system, and a robotic arm.

**Docking Port**

The docking port would allow the Starship to connect to the Lunar Gateway. This would enable the transfer of crew and cargo between the two spacecraft. The docking port would be located on the top of the Starship.

**Propulsion System**

The propulsion system would provide the Starship with the ability to maneuver in lunar orbit. This would allow the Starship to dock with the Lunar Gateway, perform maintenance, and transfer crew and cargo. The propulsion system would use methane and oxygen propellants.

**Robotic Arm**

The robotic arm would provide the Starship with the ability to manipulate cargo and perform maintenance. This would allow the Starship to assist with the construction of the Lunar Gateway, move cargo between the Lunar Gateway and the lunar surface, and perform repairs. The robotic arm would be located on the side of the Starship.

**Advanced Capabilities**

In addition to the docking port, propulsion system, and robotic arm, the Starship Advanced would also include a number of other advanced capabilities. These capabilities include:

* A life support system that would provide the crew with oxygen, water, and food.
* A communications system that would allow the crew to communicate with the Lunar Gateway and with Earth.
* A navigation system that would allow the Starship to navigate in lunar orbit.
* A power system that would provide the Starship with electricity.

**Lunar Gateway Operations**

The Starship Advanced would be used to support a variety of operations at the Lunar Gateway. These operations include:

* Crew transfer: The Starship would be used to transfer crew between the Earth and the Lunar Gateway.
* Cargo transfer: The Starship would be used to transfer cargo between the Earth and the Lunar Gateway.
* Maintenance: The Starship would be used to perform maintenance on the Lunar Gateway.
* Construction: The Starship would be used to assist with the construction of the Lunar Gateway.
* Science: The Starship would be used to conduct scientific research in lunar orbit.

**Benefits of the Starship Advanced**

The Starship Advanced would provide a number of benefits for Lunar Gateway operations. These benefits include:

* Increased crew capacity: The Starship Advanced would be able to transport more crew to the Lunar Gateway than the current Starship design.
* Increased cargo capacity: The Starship Advanced would be able to transport more cargo to the Lunar Gateway than the current Starship design.
* Increased maneuverability: The Starship Advanced would be able to maneuver more easily in lunar orbit than the current Starship design.
* Increased versatility: The Starship Advanced would be able to perform a wider range of operations at the Lunar Gateway than the current Starship design.

**Conclusion**

The SpaceX Starships Advanced program is a promising set of modifications that would enable the Starship system to perform a wider range of operations in support of the Lunar Gateway. These modifications would provide a number of benefits, including increased crew capacity, increased cargo capacity, increased maneuverability, and increased versatility.
