**10. Working with JSX - Embedding Expressions in JSX**

JSX (JavaScript XML) is a syntax extension to JavaScript that allows developers to write React components in a more XML-like way. JSX expressions allow you to embed JavaScript code directly into your JSX templates.

**Embedding Expressions**

To embed an expression in JSX, you need to wrap it in curly braces:

```jsx
const App = () => {
  const name = "John";
  return <div>Hello, {name}!</div>;
};
```

In the above example, the expression `name` is evaluated and its value is inserted into the JSX template.

**Valid JavaScript Expressions**

You can use any valid JavaScript expression inside JSX curly braces, including:

* Variables: `{variableName}`
* Functions: `{functionCall()}`
* Logical operators: `&&`, `||`, `!`
* Conditional expressions: `{condition ? trueValue : falseValue}`
* Template literals: `{`${string} ${expression}`}`

**Arrays and Objects**

You can also embed arrays and objects in JSX using the spread operator (`...`):

```jsx
const App = () => {
  const array = [1, 2, 3];
  const object = { name: "John", age: 30 };

  return (
    <>
      <ul>
        {array.map((item) => <li key={item}>{item}</li>)}
      </ul>
      <div>Name: {object.name}</div>
    </>
  );
};
```

In the above example, the `array` is spread into the `<li>` elements, and the `object` is accessed using the dot operator.

**Event Handlers**

JSX allows you to define event handlers directly in the JSX attribute:

```jsx
const App = () => (
  <button onClick={() => alert("Hello world!")}>Click me</button>
);
```

In the above example, the arrow function `() => alert("Hello world!")` will be executed when the button is clicked.

**Gotchas**

* Expressions must be wrapped in curly braces.
* Expressions cannot contain newlines.
* Expressions cannot contain comment tags.
* Expressions are evaluated at render time, not compile time.
