## 104. Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) with React - Offline Support

### Introduction

Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) are web applications that provide a native-like experience to users. They can be installed on a user's device, work offline, and send push notifications. This makes them a great option for building apps that need to be reliable and engaging.

In this tutorial, we're going to build a simple PWA with React. We'll use the create-react-app tool to create our app, and we'll add the necessary code to make it work offline.

### Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you have the following installed:

* Node.js
* npm
* create-react-app

### Creating the React App

To create a new React app, run the following command:

```
npx create-react-app pwa-demo
```

This will create a new directory called `pwa-demo`. Change into the directory and start the development server:

```
cd pwa-demo
npm start
```

### Adding Offline Support

To add offline support to our app, we need to install the `workbox-webpack-plugin`. This plugin will generate a service worker for our app that will cache our assets and allow the app to work offline.

To install the plugin, run the following command:

```
npm install workbox-webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

Next, open the `package.json` file and add the following scripts:

```json
"scripts": {
  "prebuild": "workbox generate-sw"
}
```

The `prebuild` script will run the `workbox generate-sw` command before the build process starts. This will generate a service worker for our app.

### Configuring the Service Worker

Next, we need to configure the service worker. Open the `src/serviceWorker.js` file and add the following code:

```js
workbox.precaching.precacheAndRoute(self.__precacheManifest);
```

This code will precache our app's assets and route them to the service worker.

### Testing the App

To test the app, open the Chrome DevTools and go to the Application tab. You should see a new section called "Service Workers". Click on the "Register" button to register the service worker.

Now, close the DevTools and reload the page. The app should still work, even if you're offline.

### Conclusion

In this tutorial, we learned how to create a simple PWA with React. We used the create-react-app tool to create our app, and we added the necessary code to make it work offline. PWAs are a great option for building apps that need to be reliable and engaging.
