## 88. GraphQL and React - Querying Data

### Introduction

GraphQL is a powerful query language that allows you to fetch exactly the data you need from a server. This makes it a great fit for building client-side applications with React, as it can reduce the amount of data that is transferred over the network and improve the performance of your application.

In this article, we will explore how to use GraphQL to query data in a React application. We will start by setting up a GraphQL server and client, and then we will build a simple React component that fetches data from the server.

### Setting Up a GraphQL Server

The first step is to set up a GraphQL server. There are a number of different GraphQL servers available, but for this tutorial we will use Apollo Server.

To install Apollo Server, run the following command:

```
npm install --save apollo-server
```

Once Apollo Server is installed, you can create a new GraphQL server by running the following command:

```
npx apollo new-server project-name
```

This will create a new directory called `project-name` that contains a basic GraphQL server.

### Setting Up a GraphQL Client

Next, you need to set up a GraphQL client. There are a number of different GraphQL clients available, but for this tutorial we will use Apollo Client.

To install Apollo Client, run the following command:

```
npm install --save apollo-client
```

Once Apollo Client is installed, you can create a new GraphQL client by running the following code:

```
import { ApolloClient, InMemoryCache } from '@apollo/client';

const client = new ApolloClient({
  uri: 'http://localhost:4000/graphql',
  cache: new InMemoryCache(),
});
```

This code creates a new Apollo Client that is configured to use the GraphQL server that we created in the previous step.

### Building a React Component that Fetches Data

Now that we have a GraphQL server and client set up, we can build a React component that fetches data from the server.

To do this, we will create a new React component called `DataFetcher`. The `DataFetcher` component will use the Apollo Client to fetch data from the GraphQL server and display it in the UI.

The code for the `DataFetcher` component is as follows:

```
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { useQuery } from '@apollo/client';

const GET_DATA = gql`
  query GetData {
    data {
      id
      name
    }
  }
`;

const DataFetcher = () => {
  const [data, setData] = useState([]);
  const { loading, error } = useQuery(GET_DATA, {
    onCompleted: (data) => {
      setData(data.data.data);
    },
  });

  if (loading) return <p>Loading...</p>;
  if (error) return <p>Error :(</p>;

  return (
    <ul>
      {data.map((item) => (
        <li key={item.id}>{item.name}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  );
};

export default DataFetcher;
```

This component uses the `useQuery` hook from Apollo Client to fetch data from the GraphQL server. The `useQuery` hook takes a GraphQL query as an argument and returns an object that contains the data that was fetched from the server, as well as a loading flag and an error flag.

The `DataFetcher` component uses the data that is returned by the `useQuery` hook to render a list of items.

### Conclusion

In this article, we explored how to use GraphQL to query data in a React application. We started by setting up a GraphQL server and client, and then we built a simple React component that fetches data from the server.

GraphQL is a powerful tool that can be used to improve the performance of your React applications. By using GraphQL, you can reduce the amount of data that is transferred over the network and improve the user experience.
